     The applicant alleges that a raid was carried out by the security
forces on his village, in the course of which his house and possessions
were destroyed. He invokes Article 3 (Art. 3) (the prohibition on
inhuman and degrading treatment), Article 5 (Art. 5) (the right to
liberty and security of person), Article 6 (Art. 6) (the right of
access to court), Article 8 (Art. 8) (the right to respect for family
life and home), Article 13 (Art. 13) (the right to effective national
remedies for Convention breaches), Article 14 (Art. 14) (the
prohibition on discrimination) and Article 18 (Art. 18) (the
prohibition on using authorised Convention restrictions for ulterior
purposes) of the Convention, as well as Article 1 of Protocol No. 1
(P1-1) (the right to peaceful enjoyment of possessions).

     Exhaustion of domestic remedies

     The Government argue that the application is inadmissible since
the applicant has failed to exhaust domestic remedies as required by
Article 26 (Art. 26) of the Convention. They contend that the applicant
has neither applied for indemnity nor complained to the competent
judicial authorities and they point out that there is a pending
investigation before the Kulp District Administrative Board.

     The applicant maintains that there is no requirement that he
pursue domestic remedies. He contends that there is no role for him in
the present stages of the investigation pending before the District
Administrative Board. In any event, since the applicant has claimed
that there is an administrative practice of violation of Article 13
(Art. 13) of the Convention and has provided supporting evidence for
such a practice, he is not, in his view, required to await the outcome
of the criminal investigation process before complaining to the
Commission.

     With regard to the Government's assertion that he did not take
any legal action in order to seek compensation for the destruction of
his possessions, the applicant repeats the detailed account given in
his original application to the effect that he did do so.

     The Commission recalls that Article 26 (Art. 26) of the
Convention only requires the exhaustion of such remedies which relate
to the breaches of the Convention alleged and at the same time can
provide effective and sufficient redress. An applicant does not need
to exercise remedies which, although theoretically of a nature to
constitute remedies, do not in reality offer any chance of redressing
the alleged breach. It is furthermore established that the burden of
proving the existence of available and sufficient domestic remedies
lies upon the State invoking the rule (cf. Eur. Court H.R., De Jong,
Baljet and Van den Brink judgment of 22 May 1984, Series A no. 77, p.
18, para. 36, and Nos. 14116/88 and 14117/88, Sargin and Yagci v.
Turkey, Dec. 11.05.89, D.R. 61 p. 250, 262).

     The Commission does not deem it necessary to determine whether
there exists an administrative practice on the part of the Turkish
authorities tolerating abuses of human rights of the kind alleged by
the applicant, because it agrees with the applicant that it has not
been established that he had at his disposal adequate remedies under
the state of emergency to deal effectively with his complaints.

     The Commission refers to its findings in Application
No. 21893/93, Akdivar and others v. Turkey (Dec. 19.10.94) which
concerned similar allegations by the applicants of destruction of their
village and forcible expulsion. In that case, the Commission noted that
it was a known fact that there has been destruction of villages in
South-East Turkey with many people displaced as a result. While the
Government had outlined a general scheme of remedies that would
normally be available for complaints against the security forces, the
Commission found it significant that, although the destruction of
houses and property had been a frequent occurrence in South-East
Turkey, the Government had not provided a single example of
compensation being awarded to villagers for damage like that suffered
by the applicants. Nor had relevant examples been given of successful
prosecutions against members of the security forces for the destruction
of villages and the expulsion of villagers.

     The Commission considered that it seemed unlikely that such
prosecutions could follow from acts committed pursuant to the orders
of the Regional Governor under the state of emergency to effect the
permanent or temporary evacuation of villages, to impose residence
prohibitions or to enforce the transfer of people to other areas. It
further had regard to the vulnerability of dispossessed applicants,
under pressure from both the security forces and the terrorist
activities of the PKK, and held that it could not be said at this stage
that their fear of reprisal if they complained about acts of the
security forces was wholly without foundation.

     The Commission concluded that in the absence of clear examples
that the remedies put forward by the Government would be effective in
the circumstances of the case, the applicants were absolved from the
obligation to pursue them.

     In the present case, the Government have not provided any
additional information which might lead the Commission to depart from
the above conclusions.

     While the Government refer to the pending investigation by the
District Administrative Board, the Commission notes that the alleged
events seem to have occurred in November 1993 and the investigation has
not yet been concluded. The Commission is not satisfied in view of the
delays involved that this inquiry can be considered as furnishing an
effective remedy for the purposes of Article 26 (Art. 26) of the
Convention. The Commission concludes that this application cannot be
rejected for non-exhaustion of domestic remedies under Articles 26 and
27 para. 3 (Art. 26, 27-3) of the Convention.

     Six months time-limit

     The Commission has examined whether the applicant has complied
with the requirement imposed by Article 26 (Art. 26) of the Convention
that an application must be introduced within six months of the final
decision taken in respect of the complaints.

     In the present case, the Commission observes that whereas in his
original application the applicant stated that his house was burnt down
on 3 January 1994, it appears that the incident under investigation by
the public prosecutor of Kulp district and the Kulp District
Administrative Board occurred on 13 November 1993.  The Commission
found above that the applicant is not required to pursue domestic
remedies in light of their apparent ineffectiveness. In these
circumstances, the question arises whether the complaints insofar as
they relate to specific acts carried out on 13 November 1993 have been
introduced out of time, given that the application was introduced on
30 June 1993.

     The case-law of the Commission establishes that where no domestic
remedy is available, the six months period runs from the act complained
of (see eg.  No. 10530/83, Dec. 16.5.85, D.R. 42 p. 171). However,
special considerations could apply in exceptional cases where an
applicant first avails himself of a domestic remedy and only at a later
stage becomes aware, or should have become aware, of the circumstances
which make that remedy ineffective. In such a situation, the six months
period might be calculated from the time when the applicant becomes
aware, or should have become aware, of these circumstances (cf. No.
23654/94, Dec. 15.5.95, La√ßin v. Turkey, D.R. 81-B).

     In this respect the Commission notes that the applicant states
that he took steps to bring his complaints to the attention of the
authorities. He claims to have lodged a petition with the Kulp Domestic
Judge's Office in February 1994 in order to obtain compensation. The
applicant submits that this petition has been transmitted to the Kulp
Gendarmerie, whose officers the applicant holds responsible for the
destruction of his house and property. Furthermore, according to the
applicant, the Kulp Gendarmerie has refused to record or process the
petitions of two fellow villagers lodged at the same time as his own
petition with the Kulp Domestic Judge's Office and equally transmitted
to the Kulp Gendarmerie. The applicant further states that he is too
frightened to go to the Kulp Gendarmerie headquarters because of the
ill-treatment allegedly meted out to the two other villagers who had
been called there.

     The Commission observes furthermore that an investigation into
the incident was initiated in 1993 by the public prosecutor of Kulp
district, which, following the transfer of the file to the Kulp
District Administrative Board in August 1994, has so far not yielded
any results.

      Given that these circumstances do not disclose any indication
of a delay on the part of the applicant in introducing his application
once it must have become apparent that no redress for his complaints
was forthcoming, the Commission considers that the relevant date for
the purposes of the six months time limit should not be considered to
be a date earlier than February 1994.

     It follows that the applicant's complaints have been introduced
within the six months time-limit imposed by Article 26 (Art. 26) of the
Convention.

     As to the substance of the applicant's complaints

     The Government submit that they are unable to submit any
observations on the merits of the case at the present time.

     The Commission considers, in the light of the parties'
submissions, that the case raises complex issues of law and fact under
the Convention, the determination of which should depend on an
examination of the application as a whole. The Commission concludes,
therefore, that the application is not manifestly ill-founded within
the meaning of Article 27 para. 2 (Art. 27-2) of the Convention. No
other grounds for declaring it inadmissible have been established.

     For these reasons, the Commission, by a majority,

     DECLARES THE APPLICATION ADMISSIBLE, without prejudging the
     merits of the case.